Alright let's
start by declaring a constant called numbers
and we set this to an array with two elements, 3 and 4.
Now note that here I've declared numbers
as a constant, that means we cannot reassign
numbers to something else, if we do this,
we get this error assignment to constant variable, however
it's perfectly fine to modify the content of this array.
We can add new elements, or remove existing elements. So constant
does not stop us from modifying the content of an array.
Okay? So, earlier you have learned that arrays
are objects, so using the dot notation,
we can look at all the properties and methods defined
in arrays. In this lecture, we're going to look at 3 of these methods,
so add new elements to the end
beginning or middle of an array.
The first method we're going to use is the push method.
So, numbers.push
we can pass 1 or more arguments, and these arguments will be
placed at the end of this array. So I'm going to pass 5 and 6
now let's do a console.log
of numbers, save the changes,
so we have 3 and 4, now we have 5 and 6 at the end. If you
want to add elements to the beginning of an array, you use the
unshift method. Let me show you. So, numbers
.unshift. This basically pushes the elements
in this array to the right, and adds new elements in the beginning.
So, again here we can pass one or more arguments, I'm going to pass
1 and 2, now let's bring this console
.log down, and by the way to do this, we can hold down the
alt key, and press the up or down arrow.
That's a good tip to know. So save the changes, now we have
1 and 2 at the beginning of this array. And finally if you want to add
elements to the end of an array, you use the
splice method. So let's bring this down,
numbers.splice, with this method
we can go to a given position, and add new elements or
remove existing elements. Later in this section, we're going to look at removing
elements, so for now don't worry about that. Now look at the parameters of this
method. The first parameter is a start, which is a number.
So that's our starting position. So let's say in this array,
after 1 and 2 here, between 2 and 3, we want to add a new
element. So our starting position is here.
What is the index of this element? Well you know that arrays are
0 index. So the index of the first element is 0
and 1 and here's 2. So our starting position, or starting
index is 2. Now look at the second parameter
here, that's delete count which is a number. How many
elements do we want to delete? In this lecture, none. So I'm going to pass 0
and then look at the third parameter. That's the items
you want to add. So, to make this stand out, I'm going to add 2
characters here. a and b. Save
the changes. So note that a and b are placed
after 1 and 2.